Let's get started with our development process.
So in this video, we'll cover steps one and two
of defining a custom validator rule,
and also specifying the custom validator rule
for the form controls.
So we're in our IDE.
Let's go ahead and open up a new terminal window.
We went to our directory.
And what we'll do is we'll generate a new class
for this custom validator rule.
So I'll make use of this ng generate class,
give validators/Luv2ShopValidators.
And this created the class
and the appropriate package here or directory.
Let me swing over here and take a look.
So source app, we have this new directory
here called validators, good.
And we have our validator code or class in this directory.
This is great.
Let's go and open up I love to shop validators.ts.
And at the bottom,
I'll exit the terminal window
just so I can free up some space.
And right now I have this very empty class (laugh),
Lu2ShopValidators but no problem.
We'll add some code here
and we'll actually add our custom validator rule.
So I'll create this method,
I'll make it static, not only whitespace.
They'll pass in a form control
and that's the one that we're checking against
or validating against,
and then we'll return validation errors.
Give me a second.
I'll just go ahead and fix the imports.
So these are from the angular forms API.
And now I simply just need to do a return null
at the bottom just to kind of get rid
of this first error message here.
All right cool.
That's done.
All right great.
So it kind of stepping back a bit.
So if the validation check fails,
and we're going to return validation errors,
if the validation check passes, then we'll return null.
All right so in my coding here,
I'll check to see if the string only has whitespace.
So I will make sure the string is not No.
And I'll also trim the string
and check the length of the string.
So trim removes whitespace,
any leading and trailing whitespace.
So I will Check to see if it equals zero.
If that's the case and I know that this string
only has whitespace.
So that means that this validation here should fail.
So it's invalid, we're going to return this error object.
And so the error object, I get my error key and the value.
So the key is not only whitespace and I return true.
And I'll talk more about that in a second.
For now let's just go into our else statement.
I'll just move this return no up top.
So in this case, it's valid so we're return null.
So no means everything's okay.
So that's kind of the main coding here for this method,
not only whitespace this validation rule
So again, if validation check fails return validation error.
if it passes, return null.
And then a bit more than this validation error key,
the HTML template will check for this error key
to figure out if it needs to display
an error message or not.
And now we move to step two of specifying
the custom validator rule for the form controls.
And so we'll do this work in our checkout component.ts.
So I will just move down here to components,
checkout component.ts.
And I'll move down here to my form controls.
So the checkout form group, the customer group, first name.
So right now we have the rules we required
in min length of two.
And then we'll add in our custom validator rule
that we just created.
So let me just knock things down to a separate line
just so I have some more space, some room to work with.
And right here, after min lift two,
then I'll add in our custom validator rule,
Luv2ShopValidators.not only whitespace.
So that's our custom validator method name.
But we need to fix some of the imports here
because it doesn't have access
to this class Luv2ShopValidators
and we can just move up top and just manually import it.
So I just don't import on this class.
It's from source app validators/Luv2ShopValidators.
That looks pretty good.
So now if I go back down and that import error is resolved.
we have Luv2ShopValidators.
And one thing I'll do here, just for cosmetic purposes,
I'll put each one of these validators
on a separate line just to make things easy
for you while we're watching this video together.
So stepping back here.
So here's the real coding for adding
our custom validator methods, that's the method name.
It links over to the actual class
and method that we defined in the earlier sections.
I like it.
This looks really good so far.